Altsuarez by Linda Mendez from December 4th, 1988
at my home in Houston concerning the Vietnam War.
In the interest of accumulating knowledge about
the war, I am going to donate this tape to the Texas
A&M Oral History Collection in the University
Archives. Is this all right with you? The answer
was yes. What is your date and place of birth? He was
born on February 25th, 1950.
born here in Houston, Texas. What type of
education did you have prior to going into
Vietnam? Prior to going to Vietnam, a high school
diploma and one year at San Jacinto Junior
College. How and why did you join the military?
Well, I joined the military for basically two
reasons. Number one, I wasn't doing too well in
school. I didn't maintain a B average, which
essentially at that particular time meant that
you were more prone to getting drafted, and I felt
that my time would be coming up soon.
Basically,
I felt like a change was needed, and so I made the
attempt to at least talk with the enlisted people
with the United States Air Force. They, in turn,
were very much interested. But luckily, for an
unknown reason, a cousin of mine who had just
returned from Vietnam happened to talk with me
about that subject and really gave me a strong
impression that maybe two years of induction
would be more beneficial to me. at which point then
I did go directly to the Selective Service and then
request for induction as a draftee, that they
would send me and immediately induct me. I don't
regret doing that, it's just that I felt somewhere
along the line that I really needed to find my
future and myself, and I so chose to do that.
Dealing with the Selective Service, did you
notice any kind of, While you being there, did you
notice any prejudices towards other people?
Like, for instance, didn't they had to judge you on
whether or not they chose people to go to Vietnam?
Did you notice any kind of? Well, during the
induction period, one thing I did notice, you
didn't find too many upper class individuals.
were very few college students. You could tell
simply by the way that they talked that they were
more educated than the ones that were around me.
Very many blacks, very many of the people like me,
18 and 19 year olds were there. And I really didn't
see anybody that to me looked outstanding as far as
looking on the upper echelons of society. This was
strictly an induction of the lower spectrum of
society, at least that's from my point of view.
Where were you stationed during your tour of duty
and what was your job? Are you referring to the
processes of what I went through? Upon the
induction date that evening, I took a long bus ride
to Fort Polk, Louisiana, to which I began my boot
training. and I stayed eight weeks there before
going on to advance individual training at Fort
Sam Houston in San Antonio. There I stayed a total
of ten weeks before actually getting a permanent
assigned duty at Fort Leonard Wood Army General
Hospital in Leonard Wood, Missouri. Is all this
Like, is this all, when you first joined, is this
all you did right before you went into Vietnam? I
mean, is this like, this would be your military
career before Vietnam? Right, prior to going,
right. Okay. And when you went, when you finally
got to Vietnam, did you feel that the training that
you had was going to be sufficient, or did you have
any idea what was going to be expected of you? Well,
I was, yeah, I was fortunate. in the sense that when
I was assigned my permanent duty at Leonard Wood
Army General Hospital, I was assigned
specifically to the emergency room. That in
itself brought on a new change in my attitudes
toward life. I began to see so much.
It's really strange, you know, from a kid that used
to wake up and play baseball from 8 o'clock in the
morning at the local park with all the rest of the
gang until about 9.30 at night, you know, that was
the bulk of my summer activities a lot, just
playing ball and enjoying being with my local
friends, to having to work in an emergency room
where little kids come in,
not being able to breathe, accident cases, just a
whole range of things that occur inside an
emergency room of a major hospital. in a major area
in Leonardwood. It's actually in between Rolla,
Missouri and Springfield, Missouri, in a stretch
of road, probably one of the most dangerous of all
the country. The hills of the Ozark Mountains
there caused a lot of fatalities. And having been
stationed there, I did a lot of ambulance runs. I
did a lot of work there on trauma cases. And that in
itself gave me a much more controlling factor on my
part of knowing that I could, if engaged in combat,
be able to or feel confident enough that I could be
able to conduct myself and work and potentially
save lives. Basically, I felt very strong that if
it wasn't for that, I wouldn't have felt that I was
capable of being able to control myself in
Vietnam. Okay. Before you went to Vietnam,
whatever you visualized of it being like, or what
did you visualize Vietnam being like? Prior to
going? Well, I was like most other Americans. Six
o'clock news, that's all you saw. Luckily, I
didn't have any cousins that were there or
somebody close. I had friends that I went to school
with, one in particular that passed away, that I
found out had died in Vietnam. It was really
strange to visually think about him, because a
year had passed by before I realized that
something had happened to him. I don't really know
how many of my fellow students went to Vietnam. I
really haven't just tried to even inquire. But
just basically, like most Americans, we didn't
really know what was going on. And that was part of
my curiosity about wanting to go there, too. And as
during the time period that things were beginning
to happen at Leonardwood,
in the sense of getting bored, getting into
trouble in the sense of getting into trouble and
the fact that in one particular incident I yelled
at Lieutenant Colonel and could have probably
gotten a court martial except that the surgeon
general of the hospital backed me up and saying
that I was corrected when I was doing and that made
me feel good but at the same time I felt that it was
just coming to a boiling point and just being
someplace and doing the emergency work there
working 14 sometimes 16 hours a day and all that
just came into play the stress there came into play
and when I get rather I received orders to go to
Germany but then I went back to personnel and told
them hey No, that's not what I really want. I
cannot, I do not feel like I want to find another
Leonard Wood in Missouri, you know, in Germany. So
then I suggested that Vietnam would probably be
the best place for me to go and I felt that I acquired
enough knowledge or at least felt strong enough
that I could do my job there or I could do a job there.
But I didn't know much about Vietnam other than
from what I'd heard from the fellow workers and I
didn't feel like it would be that much different,
really. So you didn't feel like there was a
difference between, say, the land itself? You had
just no idea what it was like? Well, here again,
you're right. I have no idea what the jungle is like
or what the different areas are like. But if it was
going to be jungle, I remember the days when my dad
would talk to me about fighting in the islands, the
island hopping that he did. in World War II in the
Pacific, and I felt like that was enough for me. I
think I could do just as well. Did you think that
Vietnam was going to be anything like the previous
wars, like World War II? Oh, no. That was something
that, in talking with many returning Vietnam
individuals at the military base in Leonardwood,
that it wasn't like that. But at the same time, I had
to see it. Having been in Missouri long enough, I
learned to acquire that seeing and believing is
something you need to do. Show me. Did you know or
understand the reason that the United States was
in Vietnam? At that particular time, no. Did you
have any kind of, what was your... I didn't really,
to me, at that particular time period, I was more
concerned with developing my own life than the
real issue. It took many years later before I began
to understand and to acquire enough knowledge as
to why the domino theory was so strong and why we
were there, basically. Going in, did you believe
anything about the domino theory? That didn't
really interest me too much. I was among so many
people my age, so many people that were like me in
the era, that time period. the real military
strategy just didn't really affect anybody. We
were there simply because we were there, either
because we wanted to be there or because we just
accepted the orders. We didn't rebel. We were just
there, you know, and the job that needed to be done,
we felt like, well, we're here, so we'll just go
ahead and get it done. What about the Vietnamese
people? Did you have any idea, anything about
their culture? No, no. I had no idea what what these
people were like. They, to me, were peasants in the
sense of the country that they lived in. They were
farmers. But as far as knowing them or knowing what
was to be expected, I really didn't. The only
indoctrination we got was about an hour of
Vietnamese culture, which didn't really say
anything. Technically, we were not really, and I
don't think there was anybody in the military that
was really trained for the type of conditions we
were going to go into and the reasons for why we were
there. We just had to accept the orders. Okay.
About the tour of duty, how did you feel about the
tour of duty just being one year?
Did you think that that hurt or that helped, the
fact that you were only there for a year and then
gone? Well, in my particular case, wanting to be
drafted and knowing the two-year induction, I
knew that sooner or later it was time to go home. The
one-year period, as far as the issue is concerned,
I never really dealt with that until years later
when I began to really think about all that had
happened. One year is sufficient. But at the same
time, under the conditions that we saw and under
the conditions that existed there, Two days was
too long. But you knew that 365 days your tour was
over. And actually I went there at a time period
that I would be there less than a year anyway. So in
that respect I knew sooner or later the day would
come when the oilers would come down and I'd be
ready to make my way back to Houston.
Okay. How did your unit, you and your unit, try and
fight the war itself, like the operations? Well,
to begin with, the 2nd of the 7th, which is the 2nd
Battalion 7th Cavalry Regiment, which is part of
the 1st Cav Air Mobile Unit, we were infantrymen.
We were walking through jungles, triple canopy, a
lot of vegetation. four trails in search of the NVA
and the VC militarily. The areas that we worked in
were combatant areas that meant anybody there was
free game. Didn't matter if it was a child, didn't
matter if it was a grandmother, it didn't matter.
They had no business being there. They were told
not to be there. Our operations were then search
and destroy. It's a hard feeling, but at the same
time, it's one of those that was a part of the
operation. That's what you're trained for. Were
there any problems with orders from the
commanders to the soldiers themselves about the
soldiers not wanting to go along with what was
being said? We had a lot of disputes. In fact, I
happened to be there at the time period that the
refusals of walking trails became very much an
important issue among the men. We knew we were
there for less than a year. We weren't concerned
about becoming generals. We were concerned about
doing something that was right. It was surprising
that most of the people that I worked with, the
people that I was with, were more intelligent than
I really thought. They were like me, a year of
college now, or two years of college. Some of them
did it simply because they found themselves
caught in a dilemma of finances or caught in a
dilemma of going to jail or going to war. this
particular case, I had many people that were
smarter than me, you know, and I believe we talked
to each other in the different parts of the country
that we were with. And the most important thing we
wanted to do was come home. So when it comes to
walking a trail and knowing that you could be
ambushed, you could be a sitting duck, no. We
rebelled. I was there Just about the time period
that the news media was capturing this rebellious
act. In fact, our company was one of the ones, our
battalion was one of the ones interviewed, and
pictures being sent back about military morale
going down. How did they deal with that? How did the
commanders deal with it? Well, as I say, the media
took hold of that, and when the politicians
brought it back, the message was then filtered
back, I guess, you know, this is my personal point
of view, was filtered back into saying that, you
know, start, stop your military young
lieutenants from forcing the issue and start
listening to the men a little bit more because they
actually, now, you know, now that the war is dying
out and pacification has taken, has taken in place
that we really don't need bad publicity for the
war. And, uh, I'm sure that in Washington they felt
very strongly that we needed to pick up the morale
and we needed the American people behind us,
backing us, because the war was coming to a close,
but at the same time you didn't want any hard
feelings. We eventually learned that many of our
young lieutenants found themselves not being
able to be heard when they spoke. And I think it
finally came to a point after several deaths that
the message got out that we meant business. We want
to come home alive and not in a box or in a bag. Did any
of that ever result in fragging of the officers in
the cells that you know of? Actually, and
specifically, there was a case, and I never really
dealt with trying to find out whether This was the
actual court martial. The day that I went into the
field,
the evening that I sat in a fire base, beginning to
see the men that I'd be working with, there was a
young second lieutenant who was going home. He was
actually getting ready to be processed out, start
his process out the next day. And he was well liked
by many of them. the medics that were with me by many
of the people that he worked with. He had learned to
work with his men. And during the era that we went
into Cambodia, which I missed, but that he was
there, they had learned to like each other. And he
was well liked. Anyway, that particular night, we
had an opportunity to talk. Of course, I didn't
really know him because I was new. very green into
the country, and this particular individual. I
spoke just very briefly. But he seemed like a good
person. He was just a very strong attitude, very
well-educated. And I felt like, well, he was
there. It was time for him to go home, and he did his
duty. But we went out on the field for several days,
and when we came back, the word came out to me that he
was involved in an incident in which he was killed.
And I couldn't believe that because it just seemed
that this guy looked, you know, hey, he's going
home. He was real happy. And that's when
everything started coming back to me as far as what
this whole world was all about. Prior to that
particular night, I was in Phuc Vinh, the night
that I met him. I was in ,, which was the
headquarters division. And I never really
realized just how much hatred there was in this
world. But we had plenty of Black Panther or
Malcolm X people, I guess. I don't really know.
It's just a lot of Black sentiment there. Many of
the Blacks that were there felt like the whole
world was against them. And they pretty well
protect themselves. I remember a couple of them
just constantly talking about, and using the
language that they use, you know, about the whites
and all this and that. So I realized there was a lot
of bigotry and racial indifferences there. I
didn't realize how drastic it became, but
apparently the more, the closer you are to the
weapons as they were there, it became real easy for
instances to occur, especially the utter hatred
that was there. And I, you know, and hearing... And
like I said, I really, this is something that just
happened to happen. But in overhearing some of the
things that were said, it just, I played it down. I
didn't, you know, I was new there, so I really
didn't know what to expect. But it was just funny
that here was a land that we were fighting, you
know, an enemy, the NVA and the VC. At the same time,
our worst enemy was ourselves. And in this
particular case, when I found out that this
fragging had occurred, the intention was to kill
the first sergeant. The first sergeant wasn't
even in the building. The frag supposedly rolled
underneath the bunk in which the young dude, the
first lieutenant, was sitting in. And
apparently, he never knew what happened. But it
was really surprising that years later, I read
about it. I just happened to be looking at the
paper, and I happened to see a first court martial
dealing with the fragging incidents and it
happened to be of a unit close to mine and I just put
two and two together and said most likely in the
back of my mind this is actually the
situation that I knew of and although it was just
one of those things that do occur it's one of those
that begin to make you feel that, you know, why am I
here? Because even if I, even if we win this war, I'm
still going to, I'm still going to, I'll go back
home to find that there's another war there. You
know, and it really, it's really degrading,
especially for morale purposes. You know, why are
we there? Why are we there? Our real problems are
really at home. And so in this case, this became
really the first major incident that I had that
occurred to me. And and specifically where
fragging occurs. Okay, what about the problems
with drugs? Did that have any negative effect on
the fighting itself? Or did it have any effect at
all? Well, drugs per se were more prevalent back in
the installations. Out in the field, you were
crazy if you lit up a joint because they gave you
away. I remember one incident where one of the new
guys, and this was several months after I'd been
out in the field, one of the new guys came in, it was a
black dude, he came in and he just went off to
himself, just about 20 feet away from everybody,
and he lit up a joint. He very quickly put that joint
away when several of our rifles were pointed right
at his head and said, you better not ever do that
again. And then he all of a sudden felt like, you
know, Well, this is the way I interpreted the war to
be like. Well, I know he was black, and I know
everybody called him the words we often hear, you
dumb nigger, you know, but it's essentially the
same thing. He learned very quickly that this
isn't the place for this, you know, and he never did
it again, but he always remembered that if they
didn't kill him, we would, you know. Because we
want to go home. That was the main thesis, is to
count your days and essentially to come home. Were
there any particular operations that were either
successes, great successes, or just tremendous
failures that you would like to talk about?
Well, when you're out in the field, every day is an
operation. Because every moment could be a last
moment. We had several cases and several
incidences that occurred with units that I was
with, but none of them really stood out. It seemed
like every day was just one of those days that, you
know, really every day was a day to remember. There
are some that stand out a little bit more, and I
don't really know whether the successes are now.
Apparently they did, because we ended up getting
steaks and ice cream, and that's one of the
rarities you find in the war. How did they measure
the... the progress y'all were making? Well,
actually we weren't, you know, we weren't really
dealing with a measurement. I, if you're
referring to kill count and the war was coming to a
more controlling factor, we were giving more of
the South Vietnamese more of the areas where it was
really dangerous or we felt it was dangerous. I
don't know, it was hard for me to judge that because
It seemed like every time we had an operation or we
had to go out in the field, we were going out in the
field with potentially 200 to 300 feet seated
where to be located. Because that was an area where
the sensor devices and the night airplanes had
noticed a lot of movement. So every day was an
operation in itself. We stood very firm, very
close, and ties communications to make sure that
if we did run into a problem that we would get the
backing. One particular incident. February the
11th, I believe it was February the 11th. I'm
almost positive that day always stands out in my
mind. We were, our operations generally kept the
platoons no more than a mile apart in the areas that
we were sweeping to look for these bunkers and
these battalion strength personnel that we were
looking for. And there's one particular incident
We were standing around and all of a sudden the word
came out that one of the platoons had hit contact.
And it seemed like all of a sudden everybody became
supermen because we were all doing things that we
generally don't do, and that is functioning
together. We were always griping with each other,
you know, and telling each other, you stupid,
crazy person or whatever. But, you know, you ain't
going home and your girlfriend's out with some
other guy. We were always criticizing each other.
In this particular case, all of a sudden, we all
snapped and said, hey, you know, this other
platoon is in trouble. We got the word through the
company commander to converge. Immediately, we
all began to get our stuff together, and we started
running. And we ran down trails that we probably
would never want to do, but the objective was to
hurry up and get to the platoon that was hit and
provide the perimeter support. secure the
perimeter in order to get the people that were hurt
out of there. I ran like I'd never run before. I
guess I was glad that I was so physically fit. And
before I knew it, you know, through the jungle,
jumping over the dead logs, and I have no idea if I
stepped on a boa constrictor or not, but I think I
did. Something was slippery when I stepped on one.
We made our engagement. And immediately upon
arriving, I could see and I could hear the moans and
the groans and the smell of powder. And there was
still contact. We were still fighting. Some of the
guys up in front were fighting.
One of the soldiers was hit really bad, and his
stomach was torn apart. He was screaming and
hollering.
damn it, he didn't want to die here. This wasn't the
way it was supposed to be. We had two of the medics,
the headquarters medics, was already there. And
one of the other platoons was arriving very
quickly. We were all converging pretty close. We
weren't really that far. A mile apart is not really
that far, but yet in a jungle it seems like 100
miles. Anyway, we very quickly encountered the
immediate spot where the entanglement occurred,
and then were given the directions of where the
fighting was, and it wasn't just, you know, listed
50 feet further up, but he couldn't see it because
of the thickness of the jungle. I don't know what
was in the back of my mind. Not that I didn't care. I
just thought that it was something I needed to do,
and I just immediately took two of the guys, went
straight on up front, where there was another
person that was hit. And I didn't really realize
it, because everything was happening so fast,
that this other person that was hit had some
fragments in his lung. And another one had
something had gotten into his eye. He wasn't
really sure if it was a fragment or he'd cut it.
Anyway, I began to do my duties with them. I never
really realized that less than 20 feet away there
was a VC that was shooting in the opposite
direction. And it just so happened that one of the
guys that was with me happened to see him, it was
just by accident, because there was so much noise
going on and so much bombing going on, people
throwing frags and everything, that he happened
to see him and so he terminated him. At that
particular time, you did things, and you just
didn't, you functioned. This is what you were
trained for. You don't have time to be sentimental
or thinking. You just did it. Well, it was really
just one of those operations where, I guess, if it
was successful, it was the fact that we all played
an important part in securing the area as well as
being able to get the area to where we could get a
helicopter to come in there and take the men that
were hurt. It
seemed like just a few days later when we were able
to get into a nice, clear area of secureness that
the hired officers came by and then awarded medals
to the bravery. I guess that's where I got my first
one. I'm positive. So many things happen so much,
you just accept them and it's just like I say, every
day is a different day. And in respect, I believe
that there's no doubts about it. That's why I
received my first Bronze Star with Valor. The
other one deals with another incident, which I
don't wish to really talk about. But as far as
successes, that was just one incident. There were
so many, and I guess that one stands out because I
can still hear them yelling sometimes from time to
time. that, damn, I don't want to go home, but I
don't want to go home in a bag. Essentially, he
died.
We had a few. We had a few of them with us. Basically,
they were scouts. And a scout is just one who is a
little more familiar with the terrain than we are.
Of course, we were already familiar with it had we
been there for a while. In the event we encountered
contact, if there was an opportunity to be able to
discuss with these people why they were out there
or if they were VC, he'd have an opportunity to talk
with them. The ones that worked with us just a few
times, we really didn't have too many of them, but
the one that worked with us essentially went to
another platoon. I understand, or I heard later on
that that he accidentally blew himself up when he
was trying to throw a grenade in an encounter. And
that's just about the last one I remember. There
were a few, but not that many. And we essentially
were more into lacking a being to ourselves. It was
just a trust problem. We didn't really, a lot of us
didn't trust anybody that was from Vietnam. is
that home feeling, you wanted to go home. You
didn't want to get, you didn't want to find
yourself totally trusting someone that could
eventually, in this particular war, may
eventually be the enemy. You couldn't tell the
difference. Did you have a hard time telling the
enemy from, like, say, the Vietnamese and the NVA
and the VC? Vietnam in itself, say, they The French
Vietnamese, of course, characteristically are
different from the Chinese Vietnamese. And the
Chinese are definitely distinctive between
them. I mean, we ran into one that was at least 6'2".
He was just, I guess, an advisor for the NBA. But
essentially, this is what we were looking for. We
were looking for the people that were hard cadre,
hardcore, because they were the ones that we felt
would intermingle with VC and organize and then
provide the real confrontations that were
prevalent throughout the country at all times.
And in this particular case, during my tour of
duty, we were constantly bumping into VC and NVA,
which you really couldn't distinguish many of
them. Because when they'd come into the country,
essentially, they couldn't wear the type of
uniforms or the type of clothing that they war in
the north, simply to give them away, so that's why
we couldn't really tell. DC people basically
looked all the same to the southern Vietnamese
people. That's why you really didn't trust anyone
there. You made that number one priority.
Being in Vietnam, seeing how your unit was
fighting the war, what y'all were doing, did you at
the time think that you were winning the war, or did
you have any idea? We didn't care. We were there,
and we knew, and we wanted to come home. We didn't
care. We cared about securing ourselves, and we
cared about wanting to go home, but as far as
winning the war, we already knew it was lost. I
don't think there are too many GIs that fought in
the jungle that really felt that the war was a
winning war. We were there for police action only,
and that as long as the politicians back home did
not give us the full strength and power that we
needed, and all of the problems that were involved
in there, such as having to have South Vietnamese
approval before you could bomb the country, and
having to spend nights in unsecured areas. I can
remember one night we stayed awake all night long
because we wanted arterial
support. We couldn't get it because of the
allocations. They had already let go of all the
bombs that they could get rid of that day. So we had
to wait till morning. That seems very stupid to me.
Even the emergency allocations were gone. And all
that amounted to is that we were playing a game of
numbers, and that's why I guess essentially most
of us just got turned off. What do you think could
have done to... as far as the military was
concerned, to try to win it?
At that particular time, I don't think anybody
knew. I guess that's why I met Westmoreland and got
out of it.
I don't really know. When you think about it, we
weren't fighting a conventional war, which we
were trained for. That's what we went to do
training for, conventional warfare. Those are
the ones that were able to go to advance military
training in infantry, continued on with the
conventional war. I mean, that's large units, big
firepower, utilization of men, and essentially
you were plunging into something. We were
scattered, and we found ourselves like policemen
on the streets in Houston, you know. If an incident
occurs, well, they all converge together, and
that's essentially what we did. We did a policing
action. This war of attrition, actually, was that
in itself. A little fighting here, a little
fighting there, just something to keep nibbling
away. There were really no major offenses
like the offense of 1968 in the tent. We looked
forward to one in 1971, but it didn't materialize,
I guess, I guess General Gieff didn't want to lose
any more men than he had lost in previous
engagements, General Gieff being the main
military mind of the NVA. So I don't know really
what could have been done other than giving us the
full strength of going in there and
going all forth. We probably should have gone into
Hanoi.
I don't know if that would have made much
difference either. Sometimes, you know, you
think about it, it just would have been a cost of
more lives on our part. But at the same time, with
the politicalness that was going on and the
atmosphere, you know, of just wait and see, that I
don't really feel that at any time we were going to
win the war. And I don't think anybody really felt
that there was really a want and desire to win a war
or win. Right. There's just too much at stake, too
much cost, too much money, too many lives. So the
police action seemed to be the best approach. Did
you witness any pacification at all while you were
in Vietnam? Yes. It's interesting with the time
period that I was in the field. I was in combatant
areas. But the 1st Cav, being the type of unit that
it was and winning so many of the awards that it did,
the time was coming for the divisions to come home.
And out of the five divisions, four of them came
home. We had a big stand-down. Secretary of State
Dean Rusk was present, and all the generals and
South Vietnamese president, I believe. I don't
know why. I don't really remember who he was. But we
had a huge, huge gathering of all of them, all of the
men in a great march. It was just a huge thing. on the
field by Ben Wyer base. And right afterwards, then
everybody got reassigned. Those that were coming
home could come home. Many got early outs to come
home. But I was too new into the country. I didn't
have the time period. And I still had time before my
two years were up that I got reassigned. My
reassignment went to the 229th Helicopter
Assault Battalion, which was basically the
helicopter unit servicing the 1st Cav for the
division that was still there. And so then my tour
of duty became more of working there in Benoit, at
which time then we did begin to, I began to see more
of the pacification programs helping the
citizens. And so I took part in several of them in
the sense of going down into the towns and going
into Saigon and going into the
orphanages and working with the people. We were,
at the same time, giving more and more of the duty of
combat to the South Vietnamese at that time. And so
we began to see more and more of the South
Vietnamese soldiers. which we didn't see before,
or at least I didn't.
I saw the change coming on, and it was funny how
they... We knew that essentially we were going to
give up our barracks to the South Vietnamese, and
so we started cleaning them up. That's probably
direct as you can be. You're cleaning up your
barracks, you're planting flowers around your
bunks, you're raking the area, you're... Even the
latrines were cleaned a little bit more. And now
all that had to do with was, you know, as far as we
were concerned, is eventually we were going to go
home and the South Vietnamese were going to take
over the base. And essentially that's what
happened anyway after the last of the men, I think,
I believe in 72, started coming home. What about,
like you said, you were in the jungle. Was the
weather or the climate itself a hazard being
there? Well, you know, when you freeze to death at
90 degrees, the weather has an effect on you. When
you hike the jungle, of course, there's a lot of
moisture in the jungle, and you're sweating all
the time. You get into a clearing spot where the sun
can beat on you, and there you are. And basically
every three to seven days you'd get, a new pair of
clothes, just clean clothes, it's all a matter of
two. The weather beats on you. It's unfortunate
that 3.30 to 5.30 every evening during the monsoon
rain season, the rains would come. Temperatures
would drop to 80, 90 degrees and you'd freeze.
You'd be freezing because you were used to the 110
degrees. 120 degrees and the humidity is no
different you know and it's effect than
windshield factor you know I mean just you your
body just can't you know it doesn't take it and so we
found ourselves just uh from time to time just
really wishing that we were out of there you know
when you're soaking wet the rest of the night and
then you got to fight leeches in the evening
because they might get in they might crawl up up to
you especially if you crawled if you've gone
through a little river or a little creek, and the
way the terrain is, it's just a jungle, and a
jungle, it's hard to describe. There's just
nothing but leaves and leaves, more leaves, and
snakes and all other little insects that you just
don't want to think about anymore, but it did have
an effect. What about the anti-war
demonstrators? How did you feel about those,
seeing how you were there fighting and they didn't
want to go? Well, let's start from the beginning
first. You know, I didn't go. You know, the Chicago
scene had already occurred in 68. I think with the
election, you know, Richard Nixon had won
presidency. There was a lot going on, but it wasn't
close to me because I was graduating from high
school then. You know, I was thinking about a
future and not, you know, necessarily about a war.
As I said, I really didn't know any more about the
war than what I saw on 6 o'clock news. But at the same
time, anti-war demonstrations of that period
didn't really affect me. Even while over there in
the jungle, the military was very good about not
bringing up any of that subject. And so you just
generally didn't hear it, except from the
letters, the letters from coming back home from
people who would talk about Did you hear about Kent
State? Or whatever the case was. So anti-war
demonstrating really didn't mean much to me until
I came back home at that point. Then I realized that
this continuance of this war that meant nothing to
the people that I was with, then I started
beginning to voice my opinion against it, which I
took part in the march here in Houston where we
walked from downtown on to onto the Herman Park and
had our little rally. But as far as anti-war
demonstrations at that particular time period, I
didn't really deal with it because it didn't have
any psychological barrier with me. Right. But now
that afterwards, and having gone back and
starting to think about it, now I can remember when
in boot training, the National Guards, the
reservists, We had plenty of them from New Jersey
that were with us. They'd always be laughing
about, oh, are you going to Vietnam? I'm going to go
back home. How did you know about that? Well, I
didn't really care about them, so I didn't listen
to them. But at the same time, I knew that my tour
duty probably would amount to going there. And as
far as they were concerned, it wasn't anything
that they had to worry about. You know, I think I
mentioned once that, you know, they do activate
National Guard units every once in a while. I think
they did in Ohio once, you know. But it was just a
tactic, you know, just something to get back at
them. But generally I knew that there were so many
who did evade the draft and evade service in
Vietnam that, you know, I became one of the few
that...
You know, it was always talked about in the sense
that you went over, you're going over there, you
went over there, you know. I got all the negative
feedback, which had some psychological bearing
for a little while. But as the years have gone by,
you know, I feel totally different, you know. I did
my part. I stood, you know, I stood out. I can't say
the same for them. Do you have any negative
feelings towards those who evaded the draft or...
Yeah, well, you look at a vice president now that
did it. I don't have any sentiment for him, really.
I could care less that he is vice president. I hope
to hell George Bush doesn't walk away from the
presidency because I can't imagine somebody like
that leading our country.